Variety expansion: labour or lab equipment as RyD input? Compare the
models in Section 3.2.1 (discussed in class) and Section 3.2.2 in AH,
both in terms of assumptions and in terms of results.


Write the equations of the two models and comment on the differences.
Product variety model:

$$Y_{t}= L^{1-\alpha}\int_{0}^{M_{t}} X_{i}^{\alpha} di$$

$$x = L\alpha^{2/1-\alpha}$$

$$\pi= ((1-\alpha)/\alpha) L\alpha^{2/(1-\alpha)}$$

$$r = \rho+\epsilon g$$

$$g=\lambda_{PV}1-\alpha/\alpha L\alpha^{2/1-\alpha}-\rho$$

$$M = S_{R}L\alpha^{\alpha/1-\alpha}\lambda_{PV}$$

$$Y_{t} = L_{1}^{1-\alpha} \int_{0}^{M{t}} X_{i}^{\alpha}di$$

$$x = L_{1}\alpha^{2/1-\alpha}$$

$$\pi = ((1-\alpha)/\alpha) L_{1}\alpha^{2/1-\alpha}$$

$$r= \alpha(\lambda_{R} L-g)$$

$$g=(\lambda_{R}\alpha L-\rho)/alpha+\epsilon$$

$$M = \lambda_{R} M_{t} L_{2}$$

- $Y_{t}$ : Final good production function - $x$: Profit maximizing
quantity - $\pi$: Intermediate monopolist profits - $r$:
Research-arbitrage - $g$: Growth rate - $M$: Growth rate of variety

: In the Simple Variant of the Product-Variety Model, for simplicity we
suppose that no one has a demand for leisure time, so each person offers
her one unit of labour for sale ineslastically. The utility in each
period depends only on consumption, according to the following Euler
equation:

$$u(c)= c^{1-\epsilon}/(1-\epsilon)$$

where $\epsilon>0$

Let $X_{t}$ be the total amount of final good used in producing
intermediate products. According to the one-for-one technology, $X_{t}$
must equal total intermediate output:

$$X_{t} = \int_{0}^{M_{t}} X_{i} di$$

For simplicity, we assume that each intermediate product is produced in
the same amount x:

$x = x_{i}$ for all i

The main difference between both models is the following alternative
assumption of the Romer Model with Labour as RyD Input: we now suppose
that labour can be used either in manufacturing the final good $L_{1}$
or alternatively in research $L_{2}$. Labour used in these two
activities must add up to the total labour supply $(L)$, which we again
assume to be a given constant:

$L= L_{1}+ L_{2}$

Finally, in both models we assume free market entry.

We can say that each intermediate good producer is a monopolist for this
product; the monopolist seeks to maximize the flow of profit at each
date, measured in units of final good: $\pi$ where pi is the price in
units of final good. Since the price of an input to a perfectly
competitive industry (free market entry assumption) is the value of each
marginal product, in the Simple Variant of the Product-Variety Model in
equilibrium the profit flow will be:

$$\pi= ((1-\alpha)/\alpha) L\alpha^{2/(1-\alpha)}$$

Because of the maximization problem is the same in both models, in the
Romer Model in equilibrium we obtain the following profit flow:

$\pi =((1-\alpha)/\alpha) L_{1}\alpha^{2/(1-\alpha)}$

These equations which are equal except from L1 instead of L, state that
profits are in function of the Labour meaning that when L increases also
profits increase. If profits increase, the prospect of these rents will
motivate research activities aimed at discovering new varieties. Due to
the assumption of $x=xi$ for all I then, $x=X_{t}/M_{t}$, using $M_{t}x$
which is the total cost of producing $x$, we can plug in into the
production relation and see that the final good output and the economy?s
GDP will both be proportional to the degree of product variety:

$$Y_{t} = M_{t}(L^{1-\alpha}x^{\alpha}-x)$$

Therefore, the growth rate of GDP will be the proportional growth rate
of product variety:

$g=M$

Regarding the Simple Variant of the Product-Variety Model; using the
research arbitrage equation and the equilibrium profit flow we obtain:

$$g=(1/\epsilon) (\lambda (1-\alpha/\alpha L\alpha^{2/1-\alpha}-\rho)$$

From this equation we can immediately see that growth increases with the
productivity of research measured by parameter lambda (number of
patents) and with the size of the economy measured by labour supply L,
and decreases with the rate of time preference $\rho$.

However, over time RyD became more and more difficult in fact: where
$\phi$ &lt;1 In the Romer Model case we have:

$g = M = \lambda L_{2}$ so we have $r=(L-g)$, so we obtain:

$$g = (\lambda\alpha L-\rho)/(\alpha+\epsilon)$$

Thus, we obtain similar conclusions; in fact we can say that growth
increases with: productivity of research activities (lambda) and the
size of the economy (L). Furthermore, the preceding equilibrium growth
rate is always less than the social optimum because: intermediate firms
do not internalize their contribution to the division of labour and
researchers do not internalize research spill overs. This is because
ideas are non-rival and exclusive.
